Now that we mastered form validation we're going to move on to something a little different.
At the beginning of this section I mentioned that one of the great advantages of using something like
Jey query is the huge number of plugins that are built for it.
And I showed you some of those to whet your appetite.
So for the next few videos we're going to look in a bit more detail.
One of those plugins to give you a bit of an idea how you might integrate plugins into your web sites
and use the documentation provided to get set up and to customize your installation exactly how you
need it.
So let's start by jumping over to Jay queery UI dot com and just reminding ourselves what it is.
Got a nice finish in there Jaker UI is a curated set of user interface interactions effects and widgets
and themes built on top of Jey query.
So we're just going to go through a few of those.
Essentially will select some of the most popular options from the left there and we'll look at the documentation
in a little bit of detail to see how you can set up not only the default trackable.
Drop a ball resizable widgets etc. but also customize them to behave exactly how you want them to.
So here's a quick little challenge for you.
Can you work out how to integrate the J queery UI javascript into your web page.
I'll give you a clue.
It's a very similar process to how we integrate it.
Jay query in the first place to think back to that.
Best of luck.
All right.
Have you managed it.
Or I should have been caught by this quick download option here and I would have recommended going for
the stable download.
So I'm going to download it again directly into my query folder.
You can see it's a zip file here.
So we're not certain exactly what it's going to contain but I'm going to click on it to unzip it and
then this gives us a J.Crew UI folder which has a bunch of DSS and javascript as well as some images
and this index rotated him out.
Looks to me like it will be an example page.
So let's have a look.
Open with Google Chrome.
We'll see what's going on there.
There we go.
So we can see the Jay Querrey UI is installed and working here.
So let's have a quick look at the code which we do using right click or control click and view page
source.
So at the top hey you can see that we've got a stylesheet.
Jay Querrey dash you I don't see SS linked there so let's pop that in
code.
Remember it's in a subfolder.
So we need to give it the correct location.
I'm going to rename that subfolder just so it's a bit simpler to just Jay query dash UI.
So we want Jay query Dasch UI
slash Jay query UI dot C Ss.
OK there's some custom styles there.
We don't need those.
What we really want is the Jake rarey UI javascript which I suspect is at the bottom of the page here.
There we go.
So that's pretty straightforward.
This is linking to Jay query which we've already got set up on our page just so we don't need to do
that.
But we do need of course the query UI
javascript and I like to keep my javascript together away from my CFS so there's a query we just need
to add again the subfolder J query UI and then the javascript.
OK so notice I figured that out just by looking at the download.
There is of course instructions on the site for getting started and you may have found those scrolling
down a little and then clicking on the getting started guide and that would just lead you through the
process.
Of downloading et cetera.
But generally if you're wanting to dive in with NUJ new query plugin My advice is just download it and
look through the files to see if you can get it set up yourself.
OK.
So I'm just going to do a final test to see if this is all worked.
I'm going to get rid of the custom styles.
From my form and everything else down there as well.
We'll leave the script
code there we go.
So final challenge then to test that this has been set up correctly.
Can you set up a J Querrey trackable element.
I'll give you a clue.
If you click View Source on Jay Querrey dot com you'll get something that you should be able to copy
and edit to meet your needs.
Go for.
All right.
I hope you manage that.
Some of you may have noticed that you could have just copied and pasted this whole code and popped it
into your DML file but that would have been slightly against the spirit of the thing.
So let's try and do it ourselves.
It certainly looks to me like the key line that we're interested in here is this one here which looks
to me like it takes the elements with an ID of tractable and makes it draggle by applying the trackable
function to it.
So let's just copy that line of code.
And
paste that into our script tags and then let's just make an ID of draggle
and
I'll just put some text in it and with any luck if we've connected everything up right.
We'll be able to drag that around as we go.
So that's how easy it is to get started.
As I said in the next couple of videos we'll look at some other where UI features in a bit more detail
specifically how we can customize them and remember the main reason for doing this is not to become
Jake where UI experts but it's to see how to use online documentation for things like Jay queery plugins
in order to apply them to your sites to make them more interactive more powerful and more fun to use
and will be starting with recyclables.